hey guys welcome to my channel today I'm
gonna share my story of how I started
thinking in English and when we don't
think in English we tend to speak slower
we tend to translate things in our heads
and we just tend to be less proficient
in our English so thinking in English is
a key thing for you to move from being
intermediate to upper intermediate
advanced and native speaker levels so if
you're interested continue watching
if you think that this could happen
overnight it cannot unfortunately so my
story is I started thinking in English
for a couple nights when I was in the UK
I think it was my second of first visit
it was really early on I was a teenager
so the process went faster so what
happened every morning when I woke up in
my home stay with the host family I will
be really embarrassed about my English
because my brain is still sleeping and
they would ask me questions in English
don't be like oh my god they're asking
me about my breakfast but the only way I
can say what I want is in Russian in my
native language because I just woke up
and this was the hardest moment to
switch languages throughout the day but
by the evening because I was
communicating solely in English with
other people it would be really easy for
me to talk about what I want for dinner
or just you you know discuss anything
and because I spent the whole day
thinking in English I went to bed
thinking in English and then I think it
was my week 3 and normally when you go
to learn your language somewhere during
summer you stay for like maybe four or
five weeks or whatever but by week three
I went to bed thinking in English and I
had a dream in English and I woke up in
the morning and I realized I'm actually
thinking in English and that was like
this huge transition for me because I
didn't have this switch in the morning
because I woke up with my brain
functioning in English already and my
level back then was I think upper
intermediate so it's pretty good in
English not spoken English I was good at
grammar it's good vocabulary but this
switch was crucial and remember coming
down to the kitchen and sharing with my
homestay and hey guys I just dreamed in
English and it went away I came back to
rush it when it went away because I
switched back to speaking Russian I
switched back to reading in Russian but
I created some tips for myself because I
really wanted that feeling to stay with
me throughout my life
and I really wanted to still be able to
think in English even in my own home
country so I have created a couple of
rules for myself
that I've pulled carefully until I moved
to the US and when you're in an
english-speaking environment super easy
so uh well rule number one travel to an
english-speaking country stay with focus
as often as you can
linguae trip comm all the programs are
listed there so you know select the one
that fits you but yeah that requires
your time and money but this is the most
effective way this is when I went
through this transformation when I came
back to Russia the second thing I did I
brought a lot of books in English with
me and a lot of magazines you don't have
to go somewhere to bring stuff in
English you can just go online but for
me
switching to reading in English only and
I told myself okay starting this day for
all the non study related materials I'm
switching to English because this is the
way to introduce this practice of
consuming information in English into my
everyday life
so maybe you follow this rule as well
maybe you tell yourself hey from now on
I will only do fun stuff in English so
whether it's a YouTube video whether
it's Instagram whether it's a book that
you're really maybe you know switch it
to English and the third thing that is
really still working for me here in the
u.s. when you learn a new concept in
English so for example right now I'm
learning a lot about like childbirth and
pregnancy and I realized that when I
encounter a new topic in English and I
learn all the terms I cannot think about
this topic in my native language because
I don't even know what things mean I can
not translate them because I learned the
concepts in English straight away I'm
not doing this translation in my head
and fourth tip is that all of us are
doing these translations like when we're
as cool we'll learn that this is a
pencil but we don't learn the concept we
learn the translation and they tell you
a pencil in your own language and this
is how your brain learns the word
but this is the wrong way this is not
how kids learn language and your goal is
to learn the language like as if you're
a kid so when you're learning a new
concept you get rid of this stuff so for
example if you want to read more about
photography or if you want to read more
about filmmaking blogging do that in
English and if you're encountering
Yukons have teachers go : you go to
images and you read what that word means
without translating it and this is the
key I remember when I moved to Germany
for a semester to study mathematics I
learned so many new words regarding
econometrics and like mathematics in
German and then I came back to Russia I
couldn't speak Russian during my classes
because everything I knew was in German
this is like game-changer as well so
learn new concepts in English and do not
translate stuff from your own language
into English try to learn them as a as a
concept and of course other daily
activities that you can switch to
English in our goal we have 12 hours a
day right we do a lot of stuff in our
native language just because we're
surrounded by it but our goal is to take
all the things during the day that can
be done in English and do them in
English so the next thing of course
switching your phone your smart phone
your laptop to English this is like
number one things you should do after
watching this video because this is the
key the next thing you could do is if
you have a daily planner if you have
your habits tracker if you have whatever
like a calendar where you're writing
things down do that in English again
this would tell your brain okay when I
was a kid by the way I had a diary where
I wrote down all of the activities that
happen to be during the day well I could
I think I did it till I was 18 or 19 I
did it at first in English because I
didn't want my parents to understand
what was going on and then I switched to
German and I did it in German that was
again
amazing practice for me and because I
really wanted to do it and because I
really had a goal of other people not
getting what I'm writing about it was
great way to practice languages another
exercise that I would recommend doing is
if you have a favorite song try to write
down its lyrics while listening to it
there would be some words you won't be
able to understand you will look them up
later so your goal when you're listening
to a song it's just writing down
everything you understand maybe leave
some blanks and might ask to you
there are a lot of songs out there that
you can practice with but the most
challenging son for me was a son by
Modest monkey float on do that first
like start with that song you'll be so
confused but the other songs would be so
easy so you just switch on the song and
you write the lyrics down helps you with
listening helps you with thinking in
English and well it's gonna improve your
listening dramatically and the key thing
in all of the things that I mentioned is
being regular so you start with just one
thing birthday maybe like even like
switching your phone to English and then
you introduce more and more and you if
you have an activity tracker and it
really looks like it's hello it's a
really simple thing when you can make it
yourself like activity tracker for
example you have English some and here
you have Jim and here you have your
supplements or whatever and like
everyday you just put a plus in front of
a thing that you've done so try to
introduce a daily habit of like an
English song or reading in English but
when you do reading tell yourself read
at least like 10 pages because otherwise
reading is very vague you're like I've
read a text message in English 10 pages
at least and then every day like Monday
Tuesday Wednesday so super easy to make
you just put a dot in front of things
you've done and this way you develop a
regular habit that wasn't for me guys I
hope you enjoyed watching this video if
you're not yet thinking in English so
scram to this channel because watching
more of this content would definitely
help you switch your brain from your own
language into English like this video if
you enjoyed this content and please let
me know down in comments below what is
this thing that you're doing in English
everyday thank you so much and I will
see you in the next videos